Before embarking on your adventure, you must first determine your own strengths and weaknesses. You have in your possession a shield, a sword and a backpack containing provisions (food and drink) for the trip. You have been preparing for your quest by training yourself in sword play and exercising vigorously to build up your stamina. 

To see how effective your preparations have been, you must use the dice to determine your initial skill and stamina scores. 

SKILL, STAMINA AND LUCK

You initial skill will be 6 plus one dice roll

You initial stamina will be the sum two dice rolls.

You initial luck will be 6 plus one dice roll

For reasons that will be explained below, skill, stamina and luck scores change constantly during an adventure. Although you may be awarded additional skill, stamina and luck points, these totals may never exceed your initial scores. 

Your skill score reflects your swordsmanship and general fighting expertise: the higher the better. Your stamina score reflects your general constitution, your will to survive, your determination and overall fitness. The higher your stamina score, the longer you will be able to survive. Your luck score indicates how naturally lucky a person you are. Luck - and magic - are facts of life in the fantasy kingdom you are about to explore. 


BATTLES

You will often come across chapters to fight a creature of some sort. An 
option to flee may be given, but if not - or if you 
choose to attack the creature anyway - you must 
resolve the battle as described below. 

Like you, each monster has a certain skill and condition. The higher the monster its skill and condition, the more difficult the battle will be.

The sequence of combat is: 

(1) Two dice are rolled for the creature. The sum of the two dice is added to its skill score. This total is the creature's attack strength. 
(2) Two dice are rolled for you. The sum of the two dice is added to your current skill score. This total is your attack strength. 
(3) If your attack strength is higher than that of the 
creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step 
(4) If the creature's attack strength is higher than 
yours, it has wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If 
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you 
have avoided each other's blows and the combat starts at step 1 again.
(4) You have wounded the creature. Its stamina score decreased by 2 points. You may use your luck here to do additional damage (see 
over). 
(5) The creature has wounded you, and 2 points are subtract from your own stamina score. Again you may use luck at this stage (see over). 
(6) If the stamina score of the creature has been reduced to zero, you defeated the monster. If you stamina gets reduced to zero, you have been killed in combat. If both opponents are still alive, continue the battle at step 1

ESCAPING 

On some pages you may be given the option of running away from a battle should things be going badly for you. However, if you do run away, the creature automatically gets in one wound on you (subtract 2 stamina points) as you flee [TODO]. Such is the price of cowardice. Note that you may use luck on this wound in the normal way (see below). You may only escape if that option is specifically given to you on the page. 

It is possible to come across more than one creature. Sometimes 
you will fight them as a single monster, sometimes you will fight each one in turn and sometimes that have simultaneous attacks.

LUCK 

At various times during your adventure, either in battles or when you come across situations in which you could either be lucky or unlucky, you may call on your luck to make the outcome more favourable. But beware! Using luck is a risky business and if you are unlucky, the results could he disastrous. 

The procedure for using your luck is as follows: roll two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than your current luck score, you have been lucky and the result will go in your favour. If the number rolled is higher than your current luck score, you have been unlucky and you will be penalized. 

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract one point from your current luck score. Thus you will soon realize that the more you rely on your luck, the more risky this will become. 

USING LUCK IN BATTLES

In battles, you always have the option of using your luck either to 
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound the creature has just inflicted on you. 

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test 
your Luck as described above. If you are lucky, you 
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an 
extra 2 points from the creature's stamina score. 
However, if you are unlucky, the wound was a 
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to the 
creature's Stamina (that is, instead of scoring the normal 2 points of damage, you have now scored only 1)

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test 
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are 
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage 
of the blow. Restore 1 point of stamina (that is, instead 
of doing 2 points of damage it has done only 1). If 
you are unlucky, you have taken a more serious 
blow and 1 extra stamina point will be subtracted. 

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your own luck score each time you Test your Luck. 

RESTORING SKILL, STAMINA AND LUCK

You skill score consists out of a base skill level and skill added by equipment. Your base skill score will not change much during your adventure. Occasionally, an event may increase or decrease your skill score. Your base skill score can never excited its initial value. Drinking the potion of skill (see later) will restore your base skill to its initial level at any time.

Equipment adds additional skill points. For example, a magic weapon may increase your skill, but remember that only one weapon can be used at a time! You cannot claim 2 skill bonuses for carrying two magic swords. The character automatically equips the best equipment, unless the equipment has been cursed. In the inventory screen you can see the effect of your equipment on your skill level.

STAMINA AND PROVISIONS 

Your stamina score will change a lot during your adventure as you fight monsters and undertake arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your stamina level may be dangerously low and battles may be particularly risky, so be careful! 

Your backpack contains enough provisions for ten 
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except 
when engaged in a battle [TODO]. Eating a meal restores 4 
stamina points. Remember that you have a 
long way to go, so use your provisions wisely! 

Remember also that your stamina score may never exceed its Initial value. Drinking the potion of strength (see later) will restore your stamina to its initial level at any time. 

LUCK

Additions to your luck score are awarded through the adventure when you have been particularly lucky. Remember that as with skill and stamina, your luck score may never exceed its initial value. Drinking the potion of fortune will adds one to initial luck value, then restores all luck points.

EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS 

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum of equipment, but you may find or buy other items during your travels. You are armed with Carralif's sword, a shield and are dressed in leather armour. 

In addition, you may take one bottle of a magic potion which will aid you on your quest. You may choose to take a bottle of any of the following: 

(1) A potion of skill: restores all skill points.
(2) A potion of strength: restores all stamina points.
(3) A potion of fortune: adds one to initial luck value, then restores all luck points.

These potions may be taken once at any time during your adventure, except when engaged in a battle.

Remember also that you may only choose one of the three potions to take on your trip, so choose wisely! 